Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on grammar of graphics with G-G plot 2 in this lecture.
We're going to be discussing the G-G plot to library as well as the philosophy of the grammar of graphics
to build beautiful data visualizations.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So what is G-G plot 2 do plot.
Who's the most popular data visualization package for our.
It was created by Hadley Wickham who also created packages such as the plier and tidy year.
While art does have its own basic plotting mechanisms G.G. plot 2 allows you to have a lot more control
and create complicated but beautiful date of his life.
Nations with are.
It follows a distinct Raemer of Grafix philosophy which is built on the idea of adding layers to your
visualization.
Let's go out and see how these layers work.
The first three layers are the most basic ones and those are data aesthetics and geometries.
We're going to be showing some code as we continue forward as well as some little plots that the code
outputs don't worry too much.
If you don't understand the syntax for the code we're going to be getting a lot more practice with each
different plot types as we go forward throughout this section of the course.
For now just worry about the idea of the layers of the visualization.
So to start off you always call library Gigia plot too.
But then when you're actually plotting you just call G-G plot the first layer is the data layer where
you just call it Jiechi plot and then pasand the data frame that you're working with for the layer itself
of the data.
In this case we're just going to work with the empty karst data frame that's built into our So we set
the data layer and then we're going to add aesthetics.
Aesthetics also goes into this basic G.G. plot function call what the æsthetics allows us to do is specify
which columns or features that we actually want to plot out.
In this case through this presentation we're going to be trying to create some basic scatter plots so
we want X equals mpg column and y equals the horsepower column.
If you just type this into your r consul or our script you still won't see any plot comes out and that's
because we need one more layer to actually see it.
Plot nuts or geometries layer in order to add this geometry layer Well we're going to go ahead and do
is take her data and æsthetics command under that G-G plot function and assign it the variable P L.
Then we'll take P L and say plus G underscore point.
There's lots of other geometries we can use of G-G plot such as histograms scatter plots box plots cetera
.
Right now we'll just focus on a basic point plot which is like a scatter plot.
So once you've entered this command P.L. plus Geum underscore point you'll actually see some output
.
So if these three layers.
What a look like is something like this in the bottom right hand corner.
You'll have a data layer æsthetics layer and with geometry you'll specify that you want your X mpg versus
your y horsepower.
That's just simple points.
So that's G.M. underscore point and that's what a basic plot looks like of cheesy plot using just those
three layers.
Data aesthetics and geometries.
Let's go in and discuss the next three layers.
Those next three layers are facets statistics and coordinates.
Now those three layers that we're about to talk about are actually necessary.
You can get a plot with just data esthetics and geometries but the next three layers allow us to really
customize our data visualization.
Let's start with facets facets allow us to put multiple plots on a single Canibus again don't worry
too much about the syntax of calling fast underskirt grid here.
But what we're basically trying to do is put multiple plots of the MPG versus horsepower scatter plots
separated by the cylinder counts.
In this case that command with just these four layers would look something like this.
We have MBG vs weight but we've put a Fassett grid meaning now we have three plots on a single canvas
the separator being how many cylinders each of these cars had.
So we have four six and eight cylinders of the same scatterplot but separated from number of cylinders
.
So that's the four layers we're dealing with for now.
Data æsthetics geometries and we added a Fassett grid.
Let's go ahead and keep going.
The next command is Plus stat underscore smooth.
This allows us to add a statistic Slayer.
In this case just a smooth line fit to our data.
You can see that there's a shadow around that line which has some sort of air measure for this smooth
fit.
So we have now five layers.
Our basic data aesthetics and geometries layer we've added a Fassett grid to separate our plots on a
single canvas by cylinder and then we went ahead and added a to six layer.
Finally we can start messing around the coordinates so the coordinates layer here.
We just went ahead and assigned P.L. Plus fast grid plus That's move to appeal to.
And then we added to peel two plus coordinates Cartesian x limit goes from 15 to 25.
We pass that in as a vector.
Again don't worry too much about the syntax here.
The basic idea is that we're limiting our coordinates or coordinates allow us to limit y axis or x axis
or play around with the X versus Y ratio to stretch out or smooth out our plot.
Our final layer is the theme layer the theme layer allows us to add a theme to our plot.
So once we've figured out our data æsthetics geometries whether or not we want to use fasces or statistics
or player up the coordinates we can add a theme to our plot in order to affect things such as the font
size the coloring background the grid lines etc..
There's a few builtin themes that come with G.G. plot but you can also download or create your own themes
in order to customize plots to look exactly the way you want them to look.
So what have we learned.
We learned that G.G. plot 2 has lots of options for plot types.
Our main idea is that we can add layers together for the next couple of lectures what we're going to
do is discover how to create specific data visualizations such as histograms or box plots or scatter
plots et cetera.
So we'll focus on building on this idea of grammar graphics of layers in order to go ahead and discover
and create data visualizations for particular plot types.
Okay that's it for this lecture.
I'm super excited to show you how to create date of his possessions GZ plot.
This is really one of ours fantastic strengths.
Thanks and I'll see it the next lecture.